**Vector Bending**

[THE FURBY ORGAN, A MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MADE FROM FURBIES](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GYLBjScgb7o)

Circuit bending is the act of interrupting electrical connections using various switches, potentiometers, or even just a few static resistors. By doing this, the user is able to modulate the electrical signals passing through the circuit. In practice, usually in audio applications this can result in strange drone-like sounds. In 2018 Youtuber Sam Battle or Look Mum No Computer took this to an extreme with the creation of “The Furby Organ''. Housed in a traditionally oak finished electric organ composed of 44 furbys each with the ability to be keyed to a different octave. With the flick of the “collective awakening switch”, the furbys all spring to life in unison. Their eyes start to blink, their furry groans of 90’s nostalgia begin to sync. A looping-freeze button sustains them into an endless tone - reminiscent of the jarring sound of a computer program freezing. The guts of the machine are a nest of wires and terminal strips connected to each Furby’s PCB board.

Oddly enough, this idea of bending signals can be applied to digital applications as well. Digital images or video are composed of data. Opening a .jpeg into a text editor results in a seemingly incomprehensible series of characters. By modifying this text even a little results in a jpeg with large sections of recolored areas of the image. Modifying this text significantly might result in the image being corrupted.
